README.md, before:

Linked Ratpack
=======

A Linked Data micro web framework for Groovy, based on Ratpack

Linked Ratpack takes the excellent Ratpack and adds Groovy SPARQL, 
and capabilities to easily generate RDF, query SPARQL endpoints, and de-reference URIs

Intro and example:
http://linkedjava.blogspot.com/2011/07/linked-data-microframework-linked.html

See the sample.groovy file for how to use the Linked Data aspects.

Otherwise, it is the same as Ratpack

Below is the original Ratpack documentation.

Enjoy!

--------------------------------

Ratpack is inspired by the excellent [Sinatra][] framework for Ruby, and aims to make Groovy web development more classy.

  [Sinatra]: http://www.sinatrarb.com/


Requirements
------------

Groovy 1.7.1+ and Gradle (to build and fetch other dependencies).

Getting Started
---------------

Ratpack is still *very* beta. But, you can start using it right now.

To easily run your app from the command line, build the Ratpack project and add the binary to your PATH:

    gradle buildDistro
    export PATH=$PATH:`pwd`/build/ratpack/bin

Here's a basic "Hello, World" app:

    get("/") {
    	"Hello, World!"
    }

If you save the above code in `hello.groovy` and run it on the command line, it will start your app in Jetty on port 5000:

    $ ratpack hello.groovy 
    Starting Ratpack app with config:
    [port:5000]
    2011-05-28 07:44:51.408:INFO::Logging to STDERR via org.mortbay.log.StdErrLog
    2011-05-28 07:44:51.573:INFO::jetty-6.1.24
    2011-05-28 07:44:52.169:INFO::Started SocketConnector@0.0.0.0:5000
    ...

You can also use the 'runapp.groovy' script to auto restart your app when there are changes in the directory.

    $ groovy scripts/runapp.groovy appdir/hello.groovy appdir

POST and Other Verbs
--------------------

    post("/submit") {
        // handle form submission here
    }

    put("/some-resource") {
        // create the resource
    }

    delete("/some-resource") {
        // delete the resource
    }

    register("propfind", "/some-resource") {
        // you can register your own verbs
    }

    register(["get", "post"], "/formpage") {
        // you can register multiple verbs to the same handler
    }


URL Parameters
--------------

You can capture parts of the URL to use in your handler code using the colon character.
Any parameters that are captured are stored in the `urlparams` map.

    get("/person/:personid") {
        "This is the page for person ${urlparams.personid}"
    }

    get("/company/:companyname/invoice/:invoiceid") {
        def company = CompanyDAO.getByName(urlparams.companyname)
        def invoice = company.getInvoice(urlparams.invoiceid)
        // you get the idea
    }


GET and POST Parameters
-----------------------

Parameters in the query string or passed in via a `POST` request are available in the `params` map.

    get("/search") {
        def results = SearchEngine.search(params.q)
        // etc.
    }


Templates
---------

Render templates using the `render` method.
To specifiy where to load template files from, set the `templateRoot` setting.
If the file isn't found in the template root, the renderer will try to load it as a resource from the classpath.

    set 'templateRoot', 'myapp/templates'

    get("/") {
        render "homepage.html"
    }

You can also pass in a map to use in the template.

    get("/page/:pagename") {
        render "page.html", [name: urlparams.pagename]
    }

The template syntax is the same as Groovy's [SimpleTemplateEngine][].

  [SimpleTemplateEngine]: http://groovy.codehaus.org/Groovy+Templates


The Development Server
----------------------

The default port is 5000, but you can specify another if you wish by adding the following to your app:

    set 'port', 8080

Commit message:

Added depracate note to old LinkedRatpack repo

README.md, after:

NOTE: This repo and the original rackpack is depracated, given the new [Ratpack Framework(http://www.ratpack.io/).

I'll keep this repo up for historical purposes.  This versoin was certainly uesful in several prototyping use cases.  A new version of a ratpack plugin for Groovy SPARQL will be in the works to take its place.


Linked Ratpack
=======

A Linked Data micro web framework for Groovy, based on Ratpack

Linked Ratpack takes the excellent Ratpack and adds Groovy SPARQL, 
and capabilities to easily generate RDF, query SPARQL endpoints, and de-reference URIs

Intro and example:
http://linkedjava.blogspot.com/2011/07/linked-data-microframework-linked.html

See the sample.groovy file for how to use the Linked Data aspects.

Otherwise, it is the same as Ratpack

Below is the original Ratpack documentation.

Enjoy!

--------------------------------

Ratpack is inspired by the excellent [Sinatra][] framework for Ruby, and aims to make Groovy web development more classy.

  [Sinatra]: http://www.sinatrarb.com/


Requirements
------------

Groovy 1.7.1+ and Gradle (to build and fetch other dependencies).

Getting Started
---------------

Ratpack is still *very* beta. But, you can start using it right now.

To easily run your app from the command line, build the Ratpack project and add the binary to your PATH:

    gradle buildDistro
    export PATH=$PATH:`pwd`/build/ratpack/bin

Here's a basic "Hello, World" app:

    get("/") {
    	"Hello, World!"
    }

If you save the above code in `hello.groovy` and run it on the command line, it will start your app in Jetty on port 5000:

    $ ratpack hello.groovy 
    Starting Ratpack app with config:
    [port:5000]
    2011-05-28 07:44:51.408:INFO::Logging to STDERR via org.mortbay.log.StdErrLog
    2011-05-28 07:44:51.573:INFO::jetty-6.1.24
    2011-05-28 07:44:52.169:INFO::Started SocketConnector@0.0.0.0:5000
    ...

You can also use the 'runapp.groovy' script to auto restart your app when there are changes in the directory.

    $ groovy scripts/runapp.groovy appdir/hello.groovy appdir

POST and Other Verbs
--------------------

    post("/submit") {
        // handle form submission here
    }

    put("/some-resource") {
        // create the resource
    }

    delete("/some-resource") {
        // delete the resource
    }

    register("propfind", "/some-resource") {
        // you can register your own verbs
    }

    register(["get", "post"], "/formpage") {
        // you can register multiple verbs to the same handler
    }


URL Parameters
--------------

You can capture parts of the URL to use in your handler code using the colon character.
Any parameters that are captured are stored in the `urlparams` map.

    get("/person/:personid") {
        "This is the page for person ${urlparams.personid}"
    }

    get("/company/:companyname/invoice/:invoiceid") {
        def company = CompanyDAO.getByName(urlparams.companyname)
        def invoice = company.getInvoice(urlparams.invoiceid)
        // you get the idea
    }


GET and POST Parameters
-----------------------

Parameters in the query string or passed in via a `POST` request are available in the `params` map.

    get("/search") {
        def results = SearchEngine.search(params.q)
        // etc.
    }


Templates
---------

Render templates using the `render` method.
To specifiy where to load template files from, set the `templateRoot` setting.
If the file isn't found in the template root, the renderer will try to load it as a resource from the classpath.

    set 'templateRoot', 'myapp/templates'

    get("/") {
        render "homepage.html"
    }

You can also pass in a map to use in the template.

    get("/page/:pagename") {
        render "page.html", [name: urlparams.pagename]
    }

The template syntax is the same as Groovy's [SimpleTemplateEngine][].

  [SimpleTemplateEngine]: http://groovy.codehaus.org/Groovy+Templates


The Development Server
----------------------

The default port is 5000, but you can specify another if you wish by adding the following to your app:

    set 'port', 8080
